Uninstall script (#185)
LiqoTech/liqo: docs/pages/User/GettingStarted/uninstall.md

---
title: Uninstall Liqo
weight: 4
---

## Uninstall steps

This procedure uninstalls Liqo on your cluster.

```bash
curl https://raw.githubusercontent.com/LiqoTech/liqo/master/install.sh | bash -s -- --uninstall
```

> ### Delete CRDs

Reviewer: Can we replace "CRD" with something simpler? Not sure who will test Liqo has full understanding of what CRD means.

Author: What about something like "Delete all stored resources"?

Reviewer 2: Maybe something like "Purging data"?

Reviewer: "Purge LIQO data" looks definitely simpler.
However, wondering why this has to be chosen by the user. I assume, by default, that if I want to uninstall LIQO, data should be removed. I don't see reason for keeping Liqo data alive.

If you want that the installed CRD will be completely purged, add `--deleteCrd` flag to the script.

```bash
curl https://raw.githubusercontent.com/LiqoTech/liqo/master/install.sh | bash -s -- --uninstall --deleteCrd
```

### What happens to my deployed applications?

> During uninstall script your cluster does an unpeering from each peered cluster, at this point your offloaded applications will be rescheduled on your local cluster, and, after uninstallation, you will see them running there.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
During uninstall script your cluster does a de-peering from each peered cluster, hence giving up to the foreign used resources. Hence, your offloaded applications will be rescheduled on your local cluster: you will see them running locally in a few minutes.
```

---
title: Uninstall Liqo
weight: 4
---

## Uninstall steps

This procedure uninstalls Liqo on your cluster.

```bash

> export UNINSTALL=1

Reviewer: I feel "export" variables are a pain and I suggest to avoid them.
I would prefer to rename the script and call it with an additional parameter:
install.sh ==> liqo-setup.sh
==> liqo-setup.sh install (to install everything)
==> liqo-setup.sh remove (to remove everything)
@palexster Your opinion?

Reviewer 2: Concerning the uninstall script, I totally agree since we are asking for a complete different behaviour that should be made explicit as much as possible. We can still preserve the one-liner and no-clone policy by using an approach like [that](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/4642915/passing-parameters-to-bash-when-executing-a-script-fetched-by-curl). I would suggest something like:

```
curl https://raw.githubusercontent.com/LiqoTech/liqo/master/liqo-setup.sh | bash -s -- unistall
```

For this PR, I suggest to make install.sh with an "option" interface. Due to the implications of renaming to CI and documentation, I would rather do this in a dedicated back-to-back PR.
